From downtown Los Angeles, or, downtown Los, pardon me, I got a frog in my throat.
From downtown Los Angeles, Harvintown is once again in session.
Don't think of it as losing a Spencer.
Think of it as gaining a Rob Schrab.
Let's bring out the mayor of Harvintown, you know him, if you like him, his name is Dan Harmon.
Thank you, thank you for coming, my name is Mr. Drummond, I got a different stroke for
you, it's called fucking in your mama, what you gonna do, all right, come on.
My future mother-in-law's here tonight, let's not wrap about fucking people's mamas.
The marriage is on, it's happened.
I get my ring, it get resized.
My fiance, she sneakily behind my back, there's always a challenge, like how do you know
their ring size, well, if they're divorced, you get the last ring, which I had already
thrown into the cracks of doom as I was told to do by Gandalf, but it was not unmade there.
No, Levy conspired behind my back, they had my old wedding ring, but marriage either makes
your knuckles bigger, like you flex your wedding, it didn't fit, it was too tight, I don't know
what happened.
I hope it's muscle, I hope I gained muscle, but I needed it to be whitened.
You got that Dave Kline finger muscle going on there.
Yeah, I think that's what it was, anyways, it's on my finger now, it's only mildly distracting,
I twist it and I play with it and I'll never take it off.
Aw.
Gross.
Oh, hi Rob.
I haven't seen you in months.
How are you?
I'm fine.
Why haven't you been on the show lately?
I don't know, when was the last time you asked me to come on?
Are people supposed to invite you every week?
Like yeah.
Do it now.
Well, come every week.
Alright.
Can I just say that once?
You just did, yes.
Okay, well, I've said it before.
Again, what time?
This is Schrab backstage, right before we came on stage, this is to Cody, he's like, what's
that, let me get that.
Oh, shit, that was too much, too much.
So keep your eye on him.
Terrible impression of me, I don't act like that.
I only have one thing to talk about and then we'll bring up our guests.
Tonight's an emotionally complicated night, so like run out and scalp your tickets while
you can.
It's an emotionally complicated night, 9-1-1 operators, I'm a true crime podcast listener,
we have a 9-1-1 operator, okay, you're like, my favorite topic too, I just don't, you
don't listen to true crime podcasts, like, Jeff, call me with an emergency.
Hello?
9-1-1, what's your emergency?
Sir, you need to calm down, just tell me what's going on.
I think there's a burglar downstairs.
Sir, I understand, but you need to calm down, hold on, 9-1-1, what's your emergency?
Hey, I'm burgling in his house.
Sir, you need to calm down.
Hey, I'm going to burgle your house after I get done here.
My bit's been superseded by a more, a much more interesting bit that I'd rather do, but
I don't know what to, sir, you need to give me the candelabra, okay, okay, can you hold?
No problem.
Sir?
Yeah, are you talking to my burglar right now?
Sir, you need to, you need-
Hey, I'm burgling for you, I'm in the other room.
Yeah, but can I get a word in edgewise with my 9-1-1 dispatch?
Sir, you need to turn your radio down.
What?
I'm not calling it on a radio show, I'm calling it on a radio show.
That was always the thing, millennials probably don't know about that, because it was like,
the radio, all like local radio, they're like, all right, it's about five o'clock, we're
playing all the hits of the alchemy that's coming up, what do you want?
And it would be like nine times out of ten, it'd be like, hey, hey, my name's Dave J.
What are you doing?
You gotta turn that radio down, I know it's exciting to be on the radio, but if it's
on, well, you're on the phone, then the radio's gonna go into this microphone or the phone
and then we're gonna be listening to you, listening to you.
It's a tough thing to, it's kind of a Christopher Nolan thing, but you gotta fucking figure
it out, be a professional, mute that radio, talk to us as if we're no big deal and then
you'll sound good for everybody else.
This guy's burglarizing my home right now.
Sir, I need you to calm down.
I'm fucking, you seem more stressed out than I am, I'm in my closet hiding, I have a weapon.
If you listen to True Crime Podcast for a year, I now feel like if something happens
to me, if I come home and Cody has lost an arm, I'm gonna try to figure out, I'm gonna
Google what to do if you lose an arm before calling 911 because I don't wanna end up having
the recording of me pondered over, but I feel like, oh, he doesn't sound very upset.
I think he cut off her arm, but if you call them and go like, oh my god, oh my god, my
girlfriend's arm got cut off, they're like, sir, sir, sir, calm down.
What's your address?
Oh my god, it's one, two, three, four on the fiction street, I don't know, sir, sir.
Why are you still chastising me?
After the point where you get the address and your ambulance is on the way, can I have
permission to freak out about the dead body I found and or do I have your permission to
be enough on the spectrum that the one thing I'm good at is calling 911?
I'm so sick of this fucking, oh, he's like, listen to this 911 call, and it just seems
a little weird, hello, 911, yeah, my children are missing, your children are missing, yeah,
they're missing and it's noon now and I haven't seen them since 1130 and then it's just like
going, oh, he sounds like a robot, oh, he's a robot, what is a robot, fuck everyone, I'm
never calling 911, I'm going to do something wrong.
Dan, who have you killed?
I'm never going to kill anybody, but yes, you are and you're, it's only a matter of
time before we're all adjacent to a murder, God forbid, I just don't think it's fair that
people like analyze how you respond to a trauma, right, I also like, here's the thing, we're
going to have our, look, if you're a big fan of our podcast and you just want, I'm not
like an Oprah or like picture pages thing where I'm like, you have to listen to this,
but you should know in March, the red-handed podcast ladies are coming out from Jolly England,
they're going to come out and be our guests and so like you have that heads up like maybe,
what are we talking about?
Get addicted to that podcast, wonderful best true crime podcast I've heard ever recently
and the red ladies from England, God damn it, forget, let's just move on, what is happening?
How long have I been gone?
Your beard is gray and long, Jeff, you seem so much further away than usual.
One thing that I like about their podcast, the red-handed podcast, which is a true crime
podcast.
The red-handed...
It's called red-handed, figure it out, like you're an adult, okay, I'm thinking Mittens,
I'm sorry, red-handed.
You're thinking Mittens?
Yeah.
Why?
Why are you thinking Mittens?
I have a pair of red Mittens, that's why I'm thinking of it.
Listen to yourself, you sound like you, sir, you need to calm down.
I've come home, my father drank weird lemonade, he's, all right, anyways, the thing I like
about, one of the many things I like about their podcast is that every single time a
lie detector comes up, it's time to like open, like we have to revolt against this
kind, lie detectors are bullshit, it's bullshit.
Who did you kill?
You killed somebody, there's a body that you're...
Never killed anybody, never gonna kill anybody, and at some point in my life before I die,
I will be somehow misconstrued and judged because of my affect, and whether it's like
I fail a polygraph test or I refuse to take one, which is like, oh, that's weird, he refused
to take a polygraph test, everyone please refuse to take every polygraph test, they
mean nothing.
It's the amateurs that screw it up for the rest of us.
The amateur polygraph administrators?
Or do you mean...
Or amateur liars.
Yeah, yeah.
All right, look, take your pick, I can see it's gonna be one of those shows.
Dan, look, I know like a few of like the main like five tells when you're telling...
About lying.
Yeah.
Okay, so I'm gonna ask you...
So you're like a human polygraph.
I'm gonna ask you a question that we both know the answer to, but I want you to tell
me the wrong answer.
Okay.
What's your middle name?
James.
Yeah.
You already did, you did two of the tells, all right.
You already...
Two of the what kind of tells?
Lies.
That's my name.
You asked me what my middle name is.
No, no, I told you to do it wrong.
I told you to lie.
Well, I didn't lie, I was testing you.
And I told the truth and revealed that you don't know the difference.
You're supposed to give the wrong answer.
And when you think I'm lying, and you confidently told me...
You perceive it as a lie.
Okay, so now...
That's the biggest fucking I'm nailed.
Now lie...
Now lie to me.
I will.
I promise to lie to you.
Okay.
What's...
What day is today?
Three.
I swear to God.
I fucking swear to God.
Strike me with lightning, if it's not three today.
What is your mother's maiden name?
Yellow.
You see, you're going to jail.
With an E.
You killed somebody.
No.
I killed nobody.
I didn't kill anybody.
You're...
Spencer isn't here tonight.
Did you kill Spencer?
Polygraph tests are garbage.
You killed Spencer.
You're trying to get out in front of this 9-11 call in your lie detector test because
you murdered Spencer.
And while you hesitate, you have the right to remain silent.
Look, my first guest.
People's know her as Aida Blankenship from Mad Men.
Right.
Jen Excer's know her as Mama LaRusso.
I know her as my...
From the Karate Kid.
Right.
Yeah.
I know her as my future mother-in-law.
Can you please welcome Randy Heller to the stage?
Randy Heller?
Have a seat.
How many days did you work on Karate Kid?
How many days of a shoot was that for you as Mama LaRusso?
You don't have your call sheet?
I guess I worked about three, four weeks or something.
Is this working?
Yeah.
You got to eat that mic, though.
Wow.
Yeah.
Well, I guess let's get this out of the way.
I want to cement this.
I've mentioned it before.
It's been a theory, but I want to make it a technical fact.
As of your daughter proposing to me, I am now officially and technically a Karate Kid in
law.
That's right.
In every way that matters.
My son.
Yeah.
To be.
You've got it, right?
I'm very.
Because you know that I love you.
You know that.
We've determined that.
Not at first.
No.
Not so much.
It wasn't.
It wasn't love at first sight.
But he's grown on me.
Like a fungus.
A lot of me joining your family is learning what love really is.
I mean, my relationship with Cody, I'm like, oh, that's what love, oh, shit.
There's no knocking on any previous relationship I've ever had.
I just sort of like, and then I join your family.
You guys really love each other.
It's really, it can be alienating and dizzying to an astronaut from the vacuum of.
I can understand that.
Yeah.
I have a lot of us.
But don't count yourself in you just yet.
No, no, no.
I won't.
I just want to, you know, step by step.
Yeah.
That makes me comfortable.
I like knowing that there's like airlocks and like conditions.
Like for instance, like I remember distinctly, very shortly into me dating Cody, which was
a pretty intense rebound.
I can say that now that it's like permanent, but I mean, there was no indications.
I was like, I was dating Cody very quickly after the divorce of my last relationship,
which made both of us ponder things.
Anyway, put a pin in my view on this.
This is about you.
You had this apartment in New York or you were staying at Cody's apartment in New York.
Yes.
And I went to visit her on her first show because she did this show called Dead Beat for three
seasons.
Right.
And I went to visit her.
Okay.
Good.
It's Cody.
Cody.
Come out here.
Not now, Cody.
Come out, Cody.
No, she doesn't have to.
Come on.
Yeah.
I'm totally in love with this child because grab a seat and grab a mic.
So she got this show and she's on this show.
Eat that mic.
Huh?
Eat the mic.
Eat it.
Okay.
So she gets the show and I'm like thrilled.
My kid has her own show.
And so I went to New York to visit her and it's cold in New York.
So I bought a lot of stuff to warm myself because it's freezing, a hat, gloves, coat.
Okay.
But first, hold on.
All right.
See what it's like to be...
But you brought her out.
I know.
You brought me out.
So if this gets frustrating, yeah.
So should I continue the story?
Yeah.
All right.
So I bought this huge scarf to keep me warm.
Oh, geez.
Okay.
Here it is.
I brought you up for the scarf story.
Yeah.
It's a scarf story.
All right.
So I bought this enormous long white and black scarf to keep my neck warm.
And it was not that cute.
Like you tried it on and we looked at it and we both agreed it wasn't that cute.
Or I at least...
Okay.
I at least thought that.
Really?
There was contention about the scarf.
Oh.
So there was initial contention?
I...
Okay.
You tell your version of it.
You shouldn't have brought me out here.
Yes.
I'm not going to talk anymore.
Just tell the scarf story.
All right.
So I got all dressed up and I'm supposed to meet her for lunch or breakfast, whatever
it was.
So I put everything on knowing that I'm going to go out and like really freezing temperature.
Big long scarf.
Now when?
Big long fucking scarf.
So I...
You know when you go on vacation, you're kind of off your routine, like going to the bathroom
in the morning, you know, like at home, eight o'clock.
You're talking about constipation irregularity.
Yeah.
Right.
It's like vacation altered poop, you know.
So a VAP, we call it in my family.
We have a thing called VAPs, which was supposed to be an acronym, but it actually isn't because
vacation induced...
No.
What is it?
I think it's altered poop.
No, that's not it.
So in other words, instead of going to the bathroom at eight o'clock, when you're on vacation,
you're off.
You're off your routine.
So I got all dressed up and I didn't go to the bathroom.
Nobody.
When you're regular, you don't go, it's eight o'clock, this is when I poop, like that's
not...
No, like every morning at about eight o'clock, I have to take a dump.
Okay.
All right.
What's wrong with that?
No, that's why I've always felt...
That's why I always feel like I'm constipated, because you've made it seem to be like it
was going to be this thing that happened every day to give in time, and it's not for me at
all.
Okay.
I'm just saying, like I think that's part of why I always get constipated, it's like
I put this pressure on myself, I'm like, oh, it's not...
It's a parenting fail, like you should have done better or something happened there, you
know what I'm saying?
I feel so bad now.
I feel so guilty.
Something happened with my butthole that I have stuff going on with that, you know?
I got my first hemorrhoid, I told you, I sent you a picture.
I sent you a picture.
Remember, I sent you a picture of a first hemorrhoid to her and then my sister, because
well, I wanted to know for sure what it was.
You sent your mother a picture of your hemorrhoid?
Yeah, and then Dan saw it too.
Yeah, on accident, slowly.
You liked it.
All right.
So, like...
You still liked it, though.
I'm not going to get the story out.
I'm fine with the seat room, but I want to keep the train on rails.
To be fair, guys, we warned you, this is going to be an emotionally intense episode.
Hold on.
So, you...
Right?
Goose?
Yeah.
Uh-oh.
All right.
Well...
Mom, finish the story.
I need help.
I need some help.
Can we back up?
Can we...
Yeah.
I think you guys should go out and come back on again.
The way that she's told, whatever she just told about that, we can not talk about that
for a second.
Go back to what you were talking about was like the first time that you guys met.
No, that doesn't matter.
We've accelerated.
Like, she's halfway through the scarf story.
I want...
I'm fine.
We're going back.
Hold on to the poop story.
Hold on.
Go ahead.
No.
All right.
Okay, okay.
I fucked it up.
It's a family fight right here on the stage.
I'm going to love this.
Okay, okay, okay.
God damn it.
The fucking scarf story was like...
Mom, scarf story.
How are you going to continue?
I met with the goddess and now it's off the rails.
Take a look at the scarf story.
It's such a good story.
Okay.
You guys...
Build it up.
Okay, okay.
I'm going to catch everybody.
All right.
Catch them up.
Previously on the scarf story, mom is visiting New York.
She bought an outfit.
She got this long scarf, daughter not into it.
I think...
That's all right.
Get in dress to go meet the daughter and then...
So...
An unscheduled visitor.
Unscheduled poop.
Yeah.
Like, you know, your stomach starts to like turn and I'm going, oh fuck.
It's eight and 12 o'clock New York time.
I'm way off my schedule.
I got to go to the bathroom.
So it's like time to go meet you.
And I said, well, I'm not going to take all my clothes off, my scarf, my hat, my gloves.
I'm just going to go to the bathroom.
So I went and it was a mess because I got up and the scarf went into the toilet.
My $150 scarf into the...
Into the potpourri.
And you had shit on top of it.
Yeah.
No.
Now the shit is all over the scarf.
The scarf had gone into the toilet and you shit on top of it.
Yeah.
Okay.
I walk in.
You shit on the scarf.
It was already shit in there.
Yeah.
What do you mean there was shit already in there?
I shit and when I got the scarf...
How would there be shit already in there?
Wait a minute.
No.
Because I got up in the scarf because it was so long went into the toilet.
Aww.
What do you mean?
I thought you sat...
I thought before you sat the scarf went into the toilet and then you took a big dump on
the scarf.
Right.
You're saying the same thing.
You're saying the same thing now.
We're saying the same thing.
Yeah.
Okay.
All right.
God, I thought...
Okay.
Oh my God.
You shit on the scarf.
You shit on the scarf and just it had fringes.
So all the fringes were...
So I got...
And I...
So I got up and I went...
But I feel like I walked in during some of this now.
No, you were gone.
You were gone.
Okay.
Well, if this...
If I had seen this, I would have flipped the fuck out because I remember...
Wait.
In the apartment, remember how I was just like always mad at you for making messes?
Right.
I would have flipped out if I knew that she...
She would have...
So you were trying to hide it from me.
Because what happened is so I took the scarf out and I started washing it, really scrubbing
it down thinking, I could do this.
I could make this happen.
So I scrubbed it down and then I took it and I laid it out on Cody's heater to dry it.
She was not happy.
Nothing smelled.
She washed it properly.
It was just the idea.
It was gone.
It was like a brand new scarf.
So I went to have lunch.
We...
He likes the story.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So we came back and I said, Cody, the scarf that's on the dryer was full of shit.
But it's clean now.
She flipped out.
She goes, what do you mean you put it on my dryer?
The shit scarf.
Right?
Because I have a little bit of a seedy.
She has a little seedy germaphobic...
I will see the germaphobic...
I'm a lot...
All right.
I'm a lot better.
Yeah.
So the best part is...
And I said, okay, now I got to go home to New York.
So I went back to New York.
To LA.
Oh, I mean, sorry.
LA.
And the shit's gone to my friend.
So I went home and I kept the tissue paper and the bag from this store.
So I wrapped it up and I said, I'm going to fucking return this thing because I'm not
going to wear a scarf that has poop on it.
No.
There's no way that I am going to put a poop...
I know that the poop is residue, you know?
So I went to the store and I went up to the lady and I said, I'd like to return this scarf.
You are a bad person.
Wait, wait, wait.
Put a pin in that.
Okay.
We're almost there.
All right.
And she said to me, is there anything wrong with it?
And you said...
I said, no, no, no, no, it's fine.
It's just that I bought it for my daughter.
And it's like 12 feet long and she's very short.
And every time she wears it, she steps on it and trips, so I'd like to return it.
That was the...
That wasn't a very good stuff.
God damn it.
That's not the punchline.
That's how you said it.
That's how you said the first time.
Let me finish the story.
All right.
I'd like to return this scarf.
She said...
Ask me why.
What's wrong with it?
Well, it's too long and my daughter didn't like it.
Yeah.
That's how you said it to us.
Which is true.
Because it's so long that it went in the toilet and it took a shit on it and your daughter
didn't like it because it was coated in shit.
But you just leave certain details out and then you return it, all right.
Is somebody in New York walking around wearing a poops scarf?
Probably.
No, I don't think...
No, no, in LA.
The reason that I didn't get that upset about it is because I was like, no one's ever gonna
buy this.
That's the kind of store where it has the clearance section and it will just disappear into oblivion.
And so that's why I didn't admonish you.
I was like...
Ultimately, when I found out, I was like, all right, it's a flawed thing a character would
do but...
I have to say, Randy, that if you poop on a scarf, don't try to get the money back.
Well, I did it.
I was gonna exchange it for credit.
Fuck, I saved that one.
I wanna segue into another guest that's like...I've been doing like a public television thing
where we're like linking things and that's why it's emotionally complicated because you're
my future mom-in-law.
You pooped on a scarf.
You were Mama LaRusso.
You were...
She was Rizzo in Greece on Broadway.
You were Rizzo...
She was on Broadway.
You were the original Rizzo, right?
Were you...
No, there was one original Rizzo.
But then...
Were you the original Rizzo or not?
You were.
You still love me?
Wait.
Well, no.
But I mean...
But after...
Who played the original Rizzo?
Adrian Barbo.
No.
Yeah.
Wait.
On Broadway, Adrian Barbo.
Oh, okay.
Really?
Adrian Barbo?
Yeah, Adrian Barbo.
From Swamp Thing?
Huh?
I know her as Adrian Barbo from Swamp Thing.
She was an 80s...
Oh, right.
Yes.
Like she was...
She has big breasts.
Kind of like 80s B movie kind of thing.
She was the original.
Okay.
She was a huge run of Rizzo on Broadway.
You were basically...
Two years.
Yeah.
And so our next guest was...
Johnny Angel.
Does anybody...
Do you guys know Grease?
Teen Angel.
Why is there Johnny Angel?
Beauty School Dropout, the song.
Like the guy that comes in these things, the Beauty School Dropout.
Right.
Beauty School Dropout.
Anyway, so I'll explain beyond that connection why we're bringing him up.
Please welcome Bob Garrett.
Bob Garrett?
Bob Garrett.
Thank you.
Thank you for coming.
I'm very nervous because Randy gave me the scarf from my birthday.
Mom, you got to talk into the mic.
Yeah.
Okay, we know each other from college and then we did Godspell together and then Grease
together on Broadway.
So we go back a long, long, 50 years, but he tells everybody I'm his nanny.
You're correct.
So, yeah.
And a good one you were.
Oh, I was.
The best.
But Bob, there was a linkage here.
I mean, look, I'm not a good podcast host.
I'm not a good podcast producer.
But things happen.
We follow our guts and our feelings and stuff, and we recently lost a friend that we've talked
about many times on this podcast, like kind of in the periphery, like we've probably mentioned
his name a dozen or two dozen times in 300 and some episodes because he was so instrumental
to our lives.
This guy, Sam Christensen, and he just recently passed a few weeks ago, and it was like very
unexpected, and I know that weirdly, Randy had a connection to him.
I mean, I know Sam knew you and Cody, but that was just like weird coincidence.
And I said, Randy, will you come on the show and like now seems like a good time because
maybe you could tell some Sam stories and you're like, I don't know Sam well enough
to like eulogize him, but Bob, who you've met, like was really close to him.
You saw him right before his passing, and so I thought, Kismet, we need to eulogize
Sam Christensen, someone that like he's not a household name, but if you've listened to
this podcast for hundreds of episodes, then Sam has like been caressing and touching you
the entire time because Jeff and I's origin stories go back and intertwine with Sam.
So for those of us, let's kind of like now just like remember him and start with how
did you meet Sam, Bob?
Well, we were doing Godspell, and Sam was the liaison between the actors and the producers.
He worked for the producers, and he was so great.
And every time he'd come to the theater, he'd say, by the way, tonight Paul Newman and
Joanne Woodward are here, and they're not coming backstage because Paul doesn't come
backstage, and then Paul Newman would walk into the theater in an all-white suit in February.
But he...
Do you know who Paul Newman is?
I mean, they've heard of him.
Anyway, he...
He's a salad dressing guy.
The salad dressing guy.
I started doing Cabaret acts, and I didn't want to ruin my reputation with the owners,
so I asked Sam to represent me, and that turned into him becoming my full-time manager.
And then we became best friends, and then he ultimately got me to come out to Los Angeles
for meetings and manage me, and he became like my best friend.
And somewhere along there, I don't know what date that is, but what I know of Sam is that
he's working with actors in this capacity.
He was an assistant to casting directors.
He worked on MASH in some capacity, like below the casting director, right?
Well, this is how brilliant he was.
He started out working as an associate with the casting director, and then he opened his
own agency, and he came out here.
And one of the first things he cast was the movie Network.
And he started to say, when he got the script, you have to cast Faye Dunneway in this part,
and they said, oh, we can't afford Faye Dunneway, and she'll never do it, and we have a little
budget and everything.
So they brought in every B actress in Los Angeles to read for this part.
And they kept saying...
For Network?
For Network.
And why is nobody good?
And he said, Faye Dunneway, why won't you let me...
She'll never do it.
We can't afford it.
He said, just let me get the script to her.
I promise you, she'll pay you to do it.
And they sent the script to her, and she said, I don't care what it cost you, what I get,
I want to do this film.
Then she won the Academy Award.
So then he opened his own agency and did MASH and did all these things.
And he was...
Sam totally demuried when I asked him about that.
He made a song, he was just kind of an ancillary character in that story, but I didn't know
that he actually helped cast that movie.
He was the one.
He was the Faye Dunneway guy.
Wow.
That story makes perfect sense, and it makes perfect sense that Sam never told it that
way.
I had heard about him being involved with that, but he...
Yeah, he downplayed it.
To give some context, if you don't know who we're talking about, Sam, when I was 24 years
old, I had a girlfriend who had taken his class, and he does this kind of essence workshop
where you find out essentially who you are.
And you get seven kind of statements to describe exactly why you are who you are, whether you
like it or not.
And my...
The girlfriend at the time said, I was broke, and she goes, I need to find the money, take
the class, don't ask any questions.
And I ended up doing it, and it really was the reason I started working, because you
have this self-knowledge.
And then I told Dan and Rob and everybody, and I told Drew Carey about it, and Drew Carey
now still sent everybody, it's like, you have to find out who you are.
And even if you think you know who you are, you don't have the permission to say out loud
what it is that makes you you.
And find out how people perceive you, because Sam's philosophy was, when you're on a playground,
you're starting to...
You're having this obsession with like, who am I, how do people perceive me?
And the very things that make you unique, anything that makes you stand out, you're tall, you're
short, you're black, you have freckles, but more importantly, your personality, you're
sloppy, you're neat, you're...
You're practicing being exceptional, and everyone else is practicing being everyone
else.
And you go into your adulthood with these traumatic labels about the things that people
pointed out about you as you were developing.
Because whatever made you different than everyone else, absolutely this is not...
Society's job is to try to call you out and go, you're sloppier than everyone else.
You're fatter, you're taller, you're weirder, you're slower, you're faster.
But when you're a kid and you're developing, you're like, okay, I need to fix that shit,
or I'm in big trouble.
And it's right of you to want to fit in.
But then once you hit 18, 19, 20, it's time for you to drop that shit, actually.
Your body's designed to drop that shit, but society's not designed to tell you when it's
time to let that go, because Sears and McDonald's are more than happy to step in and go, hey,
you don't want to be fucking weird, buy a Happy Meal, like no one's going to tell you
to drop that shit.
Sam's class was telling you, okay, time to drop that shit.
What sparks your shame?
Go through his exercises, go through all your love letters from high school, go through
your yearbook signings.
We've been getting called the same names since we were children into our adulthood.
And if somebody likes you, and let's say Dan, for instance, there's a way to describe how
Dan is smart.
If you like Dan, you say, oh, he's a genius, he's an intellect, he's a mastermind.
If you don't like Dan, you go, oh, he's a genius, and I hate him.
But being able to say in a couple words exactly how you're smart, Cody, and Bob, like what
makes you edgy, or what makes you the neighborhood of how we would describe you as being witty,
but precisely say it.
And there's these words that we have all been called our whole lives.
Like Sam pointed out early on when I first met him, and he said, Catherine Hepburn when
she was 18, or 19 when she did Philadelphia's story, every review called her feisty.
When she was 80 something and she did Angold and Pond, everybody called her crusty.
If you're feisty at 18 and crusty at 80, what the essence is, is defiant.
Isn't that like, you don't need men.
And that's what made her great, was that all of her roles was, I don't need you.
And if you're 18 or 80, it's a defiance.
We have different ways of saying what's special about you.
Their memories of what's said that's special about you on the playground are probably negative.
Then you have lovers throughout your life.
They find the positive ways of saying it.
It doesn't really matter, and also crucially, it doesn't matter whether they're accurate.
Sam always used the example of Goldie Hawn, who is a very, very smart actor.
She could debate your ass off on any topic.
She happens to be intellectual.
When she was young, it was her, the way the public wanted to perceive her, the way that
she would get gigs, it was like, people looked at her and said, you're an airhead, you're
a bimbo, you're a blonde, idiot, whatever, there's probably healthier ways to say that,
but that are equally not acknowledging the truth about her intellect or her depth.
But if you're presenting yourself to the public and you're for public consumption, it's not
necessarily a bad thing if people don't know everything about you.
Right, because it's not the way you see you, but the way the world sees you.
And that's what you have to discover.
And that's what you have to step on that gas pedal and go, I always use the example of
Louis Anderson, who would start his stand-up act, and he would do five or six fat jokes,
and then he would pause and he'd wait, and the laughter subsided, and he goes, I start
my set with a bunch of fat jokes, because I know, it's like, oh, it's so predictable,
but also if I don't start my set that way, you guys are going to be out there for 45
minutes, and some of you are going to be like, do you think he knows?
And I always equated that with Sam's thing, where I was like, Charisma is Christopher
Walken knowing he's creepy, Charisma is Jack Nicholson knowing he's dirty, Charisma is
a fat person leaning into the, they're like, well, I'm not going to try to convince you
I'm not fat.
That has nothing to do with me endorsing body shaming or thinking it's better to be thin
or whatever.
It's just like, there's a weird energy you exude the day you go, well, I'm kind of on
the same page with how I am perceived at first glance, and it kind of blows your mind, it's
actually more likely that you're way off because of the amount of refraction, and I just remember
the exercises that we did.
Can you tell us about the airport thing, because that was the one that was really interesting?
Yeah, I've said it on the show before too, it's like, just a rush through it, but it
was like, that was my big eye opener, where I was like, okay, this guy's not full of shit.
We went to the airport, it was pre-911, so you could just walk around the airport.
And we would do this exercise, where we handed out forms and...
Yeah, it sounded like the worst idea, like, oh, this sounds like a horrible homework assignment,
to go to the airport with somebody else in my class.
So people all around the international terminal are handed these forms and they go, so your
classmates say, look at that guy, so that guy's me, I don't say a word, I'm just leaning
into the pillar.
Yeah, like standing 100 feet away over by a pillar and you go like that.
And you have this sheet in front of you with 300 words on it, and they don't give you a
limit, they don't ask you to engage like doing it right or wrong, and just circle any word
that you think applies to that guy over there, right there.
He's down with it, it's fine, you can stare at him, we're part of a psychology class,
we would say.
And so they'd sit there, circle, people from Poland, people from Memphis, people from Fort
Lauderdale, like you're just in this LAX terminal.
You do that for five hours, you leave LAX with a giant stack of papers, you go home,
you tabulate everything, and then I'm like, why the fuck does everyone in the world think
I'm sarcastic?
And lazy.
And you're just standing there, I went with a guy that looked like Charles Bronson, he
was a weird dude, and we got in the car and we did like 50 of them, and he's going through
me, he's looking from side to side, he's like, what the fuck, what, god damn it, what does
everybody think I'm suspicious?
And Schrab went into the weekend class with Schrab, you're not supposed to look at your
cards when you go to lunch, by the way, you were told.
What?
What is it?
So Schrab looked at his cards, apparently, because we did the same class, we were there
for hours.
So this is classmates writing down things about you, you take the class and your other
classmates write shit down as you get this exercise, okay, go to lunch, that was my
impression of Sam, and Schrab and I were walking down the sidewalk, and Schrab's like, and I'm
like, what's wrong, he's like, nothing, what did you get on your cards, and I didn't look
at my cards, you're not supposed to look at your cards, and Schrab's like, and I'm like,
okay, obviously you looked at your cards, what's your problem, and Rob goes, I am
not C-3PO.
Waving his hands around with his elbows locked at 90 degrees, as if, as if, first of all,
first of all, if I did that, I would be nothing like C-3PO, because he never did that.
Anthony Daniels fucking, no, no, you're, you're embellishing to, to, okay, well, that's how
I remember it, because you're Coney C-3PO.
Sam, part of the class, which is amazing, is like, he gives you, you kind of find out
mythologically who you are, and like what your myth is, like where you live on Mount
Olympus, and what the story is that you tell, because all of our favorite like actor and
actresses, they all kind of portray the same role in different ways, but they're always
kind of fulfilling a same kind of myth, and I asked Sam, was it, what's your myth?
And he said, mine is to remove fear, and, and if, you could say anything great about
Sam, and there's lots of great things to say, Sam took fear away from people, and he gave
you like freedom.
He created this environment where I was, I was in my 20s, I was the worst version of
me, and that's me talking, I'm already not a good person.
Even me at 25, like where I'm like still cutting my teeth, being a human being, and
it's like, but there was this space.
Anyways, I think what we wanted to do is like, like we could have, we could have at any point
talked about, oh, these are Sam's superpowers, this is why you should be interested in them.
I think Bob, your contribution to it is, you were, you were very close to him for, for
his whole life, and I, I, I asked you backstage, it kind of caught me off guard, it was like,
when's the last time you saw him, because we saw him relatively recently, but you saw
him two weeks ago.
Well, he'd come to my house every Friday night and we'd watch Bill Maher and we'd cook,
and one of the things, talk about taking away fear.
Yeah.
You know, I just got a soup maker, right?
So I said, I'm going to make soup for you, and my new soup maker, which takes 18 minutes.
So I make this soup, and he said, he tastes it, and he says, yeah, yeah.
And I said, what do you mean, yeah, he said, it's, it's good, but what would make it great
is if you added an entire lemon to the soup.
So I squeezed the lemon into the soup, and he said, this is the best soup I've ever
had.
Well, he's kind of, he's, he's pulling a little trick there.
He's, he's like, I think I'll create a story where I knew exactly what needed to be in
the soup.
Exactly.
And then he's like, it was great.
When you did Sam's class, the first part, back, when I did it back in the old days,
like, and like when you still could go to the airport and do that thing, later it became
more like online and internet based and faster.
You would do the class, you would get your essences, and then if you wanted to keep going,
you would do an acting class where you, you get a placard and you would put on a music
stand with your seven statements about who you were.
And it's the kind of the neighborhoods of, like, all the things people know about you
on site, but you don't know that people know that, and it was just getting used to admitting
that and knowing that people saw that stuff.
And then you would do a monologue.
So you could be anything.
It could be a, I, I, I did something from network or you could do something from Shakespeare
or whatever the, whatever the hell.
And there was a guy in the class, it was a black guy, a really good actor, and he did
this piece where it was like a really angry piece, I forget what it was.
And he had a ball cap on and Sam goes, let's do it again.
I want you to turn your hat a little bit to the side, and instantly the guy looked furious.
And he goes, just do it again, and turn your ball cap to the side.
And he did it, and it was the fucking best acting you've ever saw.
And when it was over, he instantly put his hat back straight, and Sam goes, why does
that make you so angry?
He goes, I don't want to be thought of as the guy that has the ball cap to the side.
He goes, you see how close your anger is?
Like if you need it, all you have to do is be thought of or perceived as less than you
are.
Right, well that's the thing is like if people think that you, if you find out what your
essence is, that's equally empowering if you want to play the opposite of it or whatever,
like being able to tap into your stuff.
One thing I'm curious about Bob now that he's gone, like you knowing Sam probably better
than, than, than us on stage, like, how did Sam like, did Sam have, did Sam have, did
like, where, where was he at, he was, he was this kind of guru, he had this studio in Burbank.
My perception of him was always that he, he had plans to make it bigger.
He would do the internet version, and he was like, he was trying to, he was trying to empire
build, which I totally relate to, which I have tried to do, like, oh, I'm not enough
that I'm just going to do what I do.
Was Sam, was he frustrated about the business of being Sam, or was he content with it?
No, he was content.
First of all, he did a lot of traveling from, to New York and Atlanta and all over the country,
and he'd go for weeks at a time.
And that was very rewarding to him, because he blossomed this business to reach so many
people, but it was a business of really having people center in on who they really are and
how to maneuver them, their, their, themselves through life in a successful way.
And that was incredibly rewarding to him.
It just seems like such a, that's good, I'm glad that, because from my perspective, I
always thought when I heard he passed, it was like, oh God, he never, he had just retired,
and he didn't, like, it was such a thankless job.
He just put up with a bunch of dipshits, like me, forever, like we just kept gathering
at his feet and he would go, all right, Dan, that's an interesting choice in that fight
club monologue.
What, what, what do you like about your mother, my mother, what does that have to do with
fight club?
What color was your mother's hair?
I don't know.
Brown go.
How's that working out for you?
Fight club?
Yeah, do it better.
It just seemed like, by the way, I never chose the fight club monologue, fuck you if you
did.
Can we, can we find out your words, though?
I want to know your seven words.
Oh, I can't remember all seven.
Bob, did you actually, did you, did you take Sam's kind of class where you got your
essences?
Well, I got my essences from living my life as his best friend, but what was interesting
to me is when I started out in Cabaret, he said to me at one point, so who do you see
yourself as?
And it was in the days of Bonnie and Clyde with Warren Beatty.
And I said, well, I think I'm the Warren Beatty of song.
And he said, you're not.
You're not.
You're the fade done away, I'm fine.
You're the fade done away.
So he said, he said, so here's the thing.
He said, you're in God's spell.
You get laughs every night.
Now what you have to do is start talking between numbers in this act and be who you are with
your humor instead of just singing one song to the next song to the next song, which helped
me discover who I was.
And then once I was authentically me, I was able to attract people in record companies
to be interested in me because I wasn't trying to be Warren Beatty anymore.
Even though in my mind, I was secretly wishing I could be.
We all have that person that we target, we think, like, oh, I wish I was like them.
And the curious thing is that you might, by virtue of some random experience, you might
actually find yourself being someone else's thing.
And what a crime it is that that person's looking at someone who's thinking, I wish
I was Bill Murray, like, well, that person doesn't wish you that you were Bill Murray.
That person may or may not know who Bill Murray is.
It's like, I always wonder where you're supposed to draw those lines.
We have these mentors, these figures, oh, I had an epiphany while I was watching this
person do stand-up or perform, like, I wish I was Garry Shandling.
I wish I was David Foster Wallace.
I wish I was this.
I wish I was that.
Like, what are you supposed to construct your identity out of if it's not other primates
around you who have done things that you've admired?
And yet somewhere within there, you're supposed to just be yourself.
And it's the most useless advice in the world.
But Sam somehow was able to get into that yoke.
I remember like half of your essences, Dan, and probably like a few of yours, Rob.
But like when, because I took it first, and then you start telling everybody, go take
this class whether you're an actor or not.
Like it's really valuable no matter what you do, like that self-knowledge thing.
And it sounds culty to talk about, but it really was, this is beautiful.
There's no way to express how much Sam means to people.
It was super culty.
But like when Rob took it, like, when I got my essences, Sam tells me, he's like, there's
going to be one essence that's going to be kind of an epiphany for you that you're going
to go, oh, that's how I say that.
And he told me, like, we were trying to talk about my, the neighborhood of my poise or
my confidence.
And if you don't like me, I'm arrogant.
If you like me, I'm poised.
If you, like, there's that thing.
And he wrote down a thing, and he put on a piece of paper and slid it across the desk.
He goes, anybody else would hate this, but I think you're going to like it.
And it was the neighborhood of my confidence or cockiness or whatever.
And it was not conceded, just convinced.
And I hit the fucking desk, I go, exactly.
I said, I don't think I'm better than you.
I know I'm better than you.
And we're like, I almost started crying.
And the one that Rob had, my favorite one for you, Rob, last puppy at the pound.
Love it, that's great.
That's not the one.
I see that one.
I don't, I don't.
I love that.
Rob's that I remember is waiting for permission.
Also my favorite, my other favorite is Little Green Man.
Yeah.
Like you're from outer space.
And then next year, you dressed up as Little Green Man for Halloween, and it was the best
outfit of all time.
That's true.
It was a good one.
And what about, fuck the dog, but won't admit it?
He got you on that one.
You're doing this again.
I love that.
Yeah, you're doing this.
This is what you're doing.
Some of Harmon's, the overwriting one for me is, and it sounds weird, but it's perfect.
It's mud monster on shore leave.
That's the one that I like.
Well, Sam would say, some of these are your own.
It doesn't need to make sense to other people.
It's for you to recalibrate.
And actually I forgot, I refer to last year being rough for me, and it's precisely because
I forgot.
It's like, oh god, you're a mud monster on shore leave, which to me means your story
doesn't get to be about, like, all right, well, whatever.
Sam.
The other ones of Dan's unspeakable sadness came alone and leaving likewise.
I love that one.
Yeah, they were rough, but that's not, yeah, some people, you don't get the essences you
want.
You get the ones you need.
Can I ask you a question?
Some of these are so poetic that you're saying there was a list of 300 that people would
circle, so these were written by them.
Those are just words.
The words would be like sarcastic, lazy.
You would get there, you would collate all this information, and you would find out,
like, okay, everybody's calling you sarcastic or sardonic, witty.
I know, but like, mud monster on shore leave.
But Sam would just write it down.
Sam would just, he would make these pitches, he'd slide them across the table.
Look at that.
And I'd go, oh, the evolution of that was like, the mud monsters always welcome at the ball
or something like that.
It was sort of like, and I was like, yeah, but I don't, I don't, I suppose he is, but
I would do a monologue.
Give a fuck.
I brought a monologue in for the acting class, like after that, a whole process, and it was
like this tough guy, asshole, like, like kind of a mean, angry monologue, and I was trying
to be a tough guy.
And he goes, okay, Jeff, that was good, let's do it again.
And you have your card up, you're placard with all your essences on it, which is, you
know, kind of like, you feel very exposed, because you're proud of some, embarrassed
by others, but they're there.
And he goes, Jeff, why is, because one of my essences was dashing, pardon, dashing.
It gets you choked up how dashing you are.
No, sorry.
See?
Isn't that dashing him?
And he goes, Jeff, why is dashing on that?
I go, I don't like that one.
That's why, because someone, someone that's dashing wouldn't say they're dashing.
And he goes, do it again.
And I did it as dashing, you know, and it was way scarier, like, like, if you just like
own anything.
He told one guy, he goes, do it again, but sit on your hands.
He goes, you can't use your hands, now do it.
And it was the most terrifying thing in the world.
He just had this way to bring out something by the turn of your hat, or a little thing.
Or like, if it was Randy, and you go, do it, like, see the way you're tilting your head?
Like, why do you, like, why do you do that?
I always do it.
Now start.
And then, like, it brings out the stuff, like, he's like, you, your tears, like, if people
that think they can't cry on camera, or can't cry on command, like, in a play or a TV show
or a film, it's so close to the surface, like, really, all you have to do is slightly scratch
the surface and just say, what, why do you tilt your head?
Why are you listening like that?
I always do.
And there's tears that come from that.
And like, he had this ability to absolutely draw humanity out of yourself that you think
shouldn't be there, couldn't be there, you're not allowed to possess it, or it's too far
away to own.
Like, he just had this ability, I mean, I'll fucking start crying.
Like he...
But, Bob, what do you think, like, okay, we've lost Sam, nobody leaves, nobody gets to, like,
go, oh, I'm scheduled to leave a month from now, here's what I got to say, goodbye, I'm
packing my things, like, it sounds like he left kind of weirdly peacefully, relatively
young man to, as you described it, he said he was at the home of his partner and he just
said, I feel faint and he laid his head down on the table and he was gone.
But how old was he again?
70.
Which, I hope, is the new 50, for my sake.
I thought, I always thought, I felt like Sam was 60 when I was 25, and he looked 60 the
last time I saw him a couple of months ago, he was, anyways, but he, for a guy that was,
he was always like, he took other people's fear away, he was interested in them, no matter
how much of a schmendrick they were, he was so non-judgmental, or at least he just gave
everybody a chance to figure out who the fuck they were.
Now that he's gone, do you feel a door closing where you're like, oh shit, what did Sam want
from me?
Does that make sense?
Is there something that you worry about personally that you're like, oh shit, if Sam had known
he was going to take off, and I had had a chance to say to him, hey, not to be even more selfish
than I was our entire relationship, but any final thoughts?
That he might have given you some advice or given you an idea?
I don't feel that there were things that were unfinished between us, because we were always
vocal about how important we were to each other in our lives.
He was about to start a new chapter, because he had bought a house in Asheville, in North
Carolina.
Nailed it.
So there was a part of him that was beginning this new chapter, and I don't know whether
that had anything to do with his passing, that it was the end of one chapter and the
beginning of another.
But I know how rewarded he was.
I wish I could have said goodbye to him, but I don't feel like there was anything unfinished
between us.
We were always very vocal about each other, each other's lives, what was ahead of us as
far as projects and dreams.
You guys got together and you watched Bill Maher, and Sam was always very, he made no
secrets about his politics, and yet his politics were sort of like, he wasn't like, to me,
he wasn't like militant liberal, like, oh my God, we have to do something, but at the
same time, he was absolutely unapologetic about an incredibly well-versed politician.
So he's watching Bill Maher.
He's obviously, he's able to put up with Bill Maher's personality.
That means that you guys sat week after week, and you talked about his view of the world.
And so I guess that's the related question is, I don't want to be as corny as to say,
if Sam were here right now, what would he say to us knowing that he gets one last thing
to say to us?
But I guess that's, I don't know, something in that area, like Sam had an opinion about
the world and the way it was going and stuff, like I, would he give it, like, we're like,
hey Sam, what should we remember to do now that you're gone and you're never going to
remember, remind us to do it again, like, I put that upon you, it's a really dumb podcast.
One of the things that he wanted was for Trump and Pence to both be taken down and have Nancy
Pelosi be president.
Oh, okay.
That's simple enough.
We can get to the nuts and bolts of that.
You know, he just felt like, let somebody who knows what the fuck they're doing be in
there.
It'd be funny because he's like Santa Claus, like, Santa, what do you want from the world?
I want Nancy Pelosi to be president.
No, make no mistake, I've got really specific.
Oh, I need the 23rd district to flip.
And he was predicting everything.
Like he said, I think what's going to happen is that they're going to bring down Donald
Trump Jr. and Jared and go to Trump and say, listen, this is what we're going to do.
You better resign or this is going to happen.
I had that prediction too, as of the Roger Stone indictment too, that it actually comes
down to Donald Jr. that it's not going to touch Trump at all.
I don't think that it's going to, I have that premonition, I've been reading like the experts
kind of like speculation about this, I believe it actually, like, I do actually believe as
controversial as this may seem that Donald Trump had no capacity to actually do anything
but blunder his way into accidental treason, like he never was like, I get a great idea
about like how to like be Dr. No.
I think he totally thought he was just like, I'm winning and I know how to win.
And I think his son, who is half as smart somehow, was way too far and like took meetings
and left a paper trail and it's going to come to him.
Happy birthday, Sam.
We're talking about this, but that it's, I don't see it coming to, it's, that's, I
mean, that's the weird telenovela that I don't, how is that going to work?
They're going to go, hey, we're locking your son away.
And then he's going to go, that's all right, I'm going to pardon him.
And everyone's going to go, yay, like pardon him later.
So long, son.
I'm proud of you.
Like, like, how does the pardoning work?
Like you can't do it until later, right?
So like, people are going to watch him, watch his son go to prison.
That's my prediction and it's going to, it's going to finally find the funny bone of this
dead corpse of an empire.
Like everyone's going to go, that's fucking weird.
What do you think, you're just watching your son go to prison, like no wall, no Mexican
is that important, but I can't fucking like believe what you're doing.
What do you think Sam would, essences for Trump would be?
What are Trump's essences?
Like I, I search out like, like, like, well, just be like, like, like, like, he kind of,
he kind of spouts them out.
I mean, I think like, like, like if you were, you could be a fan of his by going like, yeah,
he said, he would be his, his essences would be like, I'm big, very big, or like, it would
be like, like toy truck language, like, like my truck big.
And it would be exactly why when you love him, you love him.
If you love him, he'd be like, my truck big, like I get more candy, like I deserve all
the candy.
Or, or hemorrhoidal, hemorrhoidal, a little bit, with a little touch out of seven essences,
like two of them would be like, they would evoke pain, like, like, like, like, how come
Obama made me hooked on opiates or something, like, I have this kind of like thumbs sucky,
like why is everybody picking on me, like just a hint of that.
But most of it would be like, like, like, me, me, no share, me candy, like, and it would
be like, like, yeah, that's, it's about time someone said that, because if, because I'm
a fucking idiot.
Now do me.
Like, you're not doing, that wasn't a Trump, no, I'm saying, your essence is, as far as
I can tell are, I love handsome people, I'm sorry, we're listening to this podcast on
my phone, I will continue to hit snooze every 10 minutes, so that you'll never find out
what the sentence was, because you just, you burned me.
Damn.
That's good.
That's like, we're listening to the podcast and it's like, like, come on, it was nine
snoozes ago.
Get up.
I only did it twice this morning, come on, you're being, I'm projecting a lot of shame
about my snoozing, um, I don't know, don't put me on the spot, sorry.
All right, what were, what were your other ones from?
I don't remember the other, those are the only three I remember.
Really?
Yeah, I don't remember them, but the first, those, those top three were, I mean, well,
last puppy at the pound, last puppy at the pound is a little green man.
Yeah.
Those two were the big ones.
I think Sam, like, well, Sam's here, Sam's watching, Sam, now, then he goes away after
the show, as far as this being on stage, like, when you, when you think of anything, Sam
would like to see us do as an exercise or anything to show him.
I think you'd like us all to have nipple rings that you can see through, that you can see
through his t-shirt.
He looked like Santa Claus, but then if he, he would wear it, he was like fucking ripped,
like, like in this like bear daddy way.
That is so hot.
I think if you had nipple rings, and oh my God, I can see it.
He would wear like polo shirts and he had this like kind of painted on beautiful white
beard, razor sharp hair, and he'd be like, I want to tell you how you need to activate
yourself and what you'd be honest with yourself.
And then you'd like, if you squinted, you'd be like, this guy's got two pierced nipples
underneath, underneath his incredibly tasteful polo.
Rock on, baby.
What year was your birthday that we roasted you and Sam was there?
30th birthday.
It was for Dan's 30th birthday.
We haven't, I think we have it on video somewhere, right?
Oh, that'd be great.
I can't wait for that to surface.
Yeah.
Can I do more than quit Twitter?
By the way, I quit Twitter and then they fucking, all right.
We roasted Dan.
The timeline.
And I said, when Sam was dating Ken Cortland, who's the best also, and one of Ken's essences
was predatory.
Yeah.
And when he said, he goes, I'm predatory, and he's like, oh shit, I'm in danger right
now.
I roasted Sam, and one of my jokes was, Sam gave me my, Sam is so old that he gave me my
start.
This is your joke, and it's nice to think that the guy that gave me my start also invented
fire.
Yeah.
All right.
I think it's, I don't know if things feel like, see, I'm kind of in a certain sense,
he discovered me, which is very flattering because he also discovered fire.
It's just a roast joke, and it wasn't worth the feeding, but to fuck it up like that is,
and that poop scarf story.
I mean, you went out of your way, like you, truthfully, with the way I heard the story,
you were a hero.
You made yourself a villain.
It was so, because it was like- I think it's because she was like self-aware of being about
how the story got off.
It was just like, I looked at the scarf, and I was like, hey, why the fuck did I ever have
to take any shit?
I'm going to take this shit and fucking pawn it off on him.
When I heard the story over brunch, I was like, holy shit.
It was just like, when we went through it, she took, you took a shit on the scarf, and
then you took it back.
I'm sorry.
I'm not giving, I'm not giving you notes.
No, you are.
No, I'm bad.
I'm bad.
No, mom, you're doing a great job.
You're doing a great job.
Thank you for- I'm so happy.
Give it up for Randy Heller, everybody.
Come on.
Mama.
I have a good story to share about Randy, actually, that I think it will make up for
any character-
To see him drive through it?
I feel like he would, because I feel like one of my words is that.
All right.
Okay, so one of the words I would say that I am is the game that my mom used to play
with me, which is called Wild Fish, and basically I would spend a lot of time in the bathtub,
which side note, it was because we had a jacuzzi tub and I had discovered masturbating because
you could sit up on the thing, and I had this book called Where Did I Come From, which was
an illustrated book explaining sex to kids, which happened to- I mean, it was hot.
It was like, you could spend time on it.
So it was like, where did I come from?
Page two.
Oh, pussy.
Page three, and you've got one.
Page four.
Check it out.
No, no, no, no.
No, no, no, no, no.
It's a romantic tale about a mom and a dad, and they're kind of a heavy set couple.
They're just like a normal- like the dad is balding.
It's a very realistic portrayal of just-
This is how I hit the jackpot.
You do look a lot like the dad in Where Did I Come From.
I don't know whether to feel good or bad about this.
No, she's hot.
I just mansion you into it.
No, he's hot.
He's hot.
But it explained, you know, when a mom and a dad or a man and a woman meet and are in
love, I mean, this was before, you had, you know, this was just heteronormative, like,
80s stuff, but it was still pretty hot.
But they're like, mom and a dad, they want to get so close to each other because they
love each other so much.
So like, when they hug each other, the penis of the dad goes inside of the vagina of
the mom.
And then when it feels really good, it's like, it feels like a big buildup and then a release,
like a sneeze.
And somehow, this is just a side note, by the way, about the Wildfish story.
Sorry, this has nothing to do with Wildfish.
But as a weird thing, because I read that and absorbed it into my brain, now when I get
turned on, sometimes I sneeze.
And it's because in my brain, it got programmed in weird from that book.
But anyway, so I love taking these baths.
And then my mom would be like, and the Wildfish existed before I was aware of my sexuality.
But anyway.
This guy, like, let me book in this.
I promise it'll be helpful because our couple's therapist was like, hey, let me just ask you
guys something.
Me and Cody.
She's like, why don't you guys describe the, what was it like, did you guys take baths
when you were a kid?
What was that like?
And then Cody, go ahead.
Now explain what happened.
So I love taking baths, and even before the book and all that, I just love being in the
bath and pretending, you know, just playing and going on in the bath forever.
So to get me to lure me out of the bath, my mom would be like, OK, we're going to time
to play Wildfish.
And she would get out the big duvet cover from the bed, the whole thing, the comforter
from the bed.
And she would, I would get out of the bath, she would wrap me in a towel and like two
towels, one on my head, one on my body.
And then she would wrap me up in the comforter in like a big dumpling.
She would like wrap all of me up in there.
And she would drag me around the house, like in this thing, over the hardwood floors.
And she would do the voices of like, basically the premise was that I was a Wildfish.
She was an activist who like was saving me from the zoo.
We were like going through the zoo and she would do the different voices like a security
guard would come and be like, ma'am, I'm going to have to see what's in the bag there.
And she'd be like, oh, nothing, officer, this is no, this is not, it's certainly not a Wildfish.
No.
And she would like, and it was the most fun ever.
And yeah, it makes me want to have a kid to play a Wildfish with them.
It was really magical.
And Dan, Dan, and I would go, uh, I, I remember the water getting very cold.
And eventually going, hello.
My brother and I would take real, real, real little, we would take baths together and we,
we had a game called pee-pee monster.
And somebody would pee in the bathtub, but you had to, you had to stand up on the edge
of the bathtub and try to knock, knock the other brother into the pee.
Because the pee was a monster.
And also because pee, the pee, like you're saying, like, oh, well, once the pee was in
the tub, like you get up on the ledge, you're skirting the edges of it.
Why did you have to avoid it because it was a monster?
It's already pee.
Why was the game called pee-pee monster?
You could have said, stop at the first pee.
Yeah.
Well, one thing.
I peed in the tub.
I don't want to touch it.
But is it a monster?
Okay, now I really don't want to touch it.
It's piss.
You pee in a pool.
What the fuck?
Gross.
Really gross.
Congratulations.
You and your brother gross.
Just gross.
Sweet.
I once took a shit in the tub.
Remember, when Sloan was in there with me and she freaked out, my sister, we were taking
a bath together and I, I mean, I was, yeah.
She think it was a shark.
I mean, I don't remember, but she freaked out, right?
She was like, yeah, she wasn't not happy about it.
She's like, I'm done now.
She's 13.
I'm done.
Randy saved my life, you know.
Tell it.
Okay.
Sounds like content.
We were, we were walking and Sam was hysterical at this story.
Everybody is, I hope.
So we were walking out of a grocery store and this car comes zooming through the parking
lot and Randy pulled me back and she started screaming at this woman in the car.
She said, what's wrong with you?
You almost killed my friend.
And in the car was this very heavy set African-American woman with nine children.
And she looks at us and she goes, didn't you see me not looking?
All right, I'm going to get some emails about that one.
Thank God we don't check our emails.
You read it.
I have an issue with H-Cow.
That reminded me briefly, like you can say, no, I don't want to tell that story.
There was a good story about Bruce Willis slapping you, like, okay, that's the whole
story.
But no, but it wasn't like, it was like, he was like leaning in the car on Sunset Boulevard
or whatever.
He's like, hey, what's going on?
Where's the party?
And you're like, it was like the eighties and you were like, I don't know, Bruce Willis.
What are you?
And then he like, what do you do that for talking to the microphone?
He was very high.
All right, well, let's call that the gossip section so that nobody like, I just, I forgot
the world we're living in.
I thought like, Bruce Willis called out for slapping.
Was it?
Okay, back up.
So was it like a Pulp Fiction or Ving Reim situation where you're Bruce Willis and Bruce
Willis is Ving Reims?
Like you stop and Bruce Willis sticks his head in the car and just say, hey, you know, welcome
to California.
I'm Bruce Willis.
He was like, I know who you are and he just slapped you and went, check it out.
What did you think of that?
And you were like, okay, well, that just happened.
Or were you like, like, like, was it, it was, did it bum you out?
Like you were.
No, it was a shock.
I was just sitting there.
What was his, what, why did he slap you?
What precipitated that?
And nothing at all.
Or just, he's just being Bruce Willis.
I don't know, it's like to do with me returning a poop scarf or something.
I don't know.
Yeah.
He was coming out to make it.
It was a playful.
Okay.
What the kids call it.
He was negging you.
Like, like it was like, oh, if I treat her, she'll go like, well, what's he selling?
I was married and I, and I, and I, and I, if you weren't married, would you have, if
you were not married, would you have, you know, probably, I don't know.
I don't know.
That's such a random thing for my past.
Yeah.
If I wasn't married, I would, I would fuck Bruce Willis.
Oh, look, he's here.
He's here.
Bruce Willis is here.
Oh, he's slapping everybody.
Oh, God.
Hey, Bruce.
Wait, what are you doing?
Bruce, wait, come on.
Take it easy.
Bruce, it's a new segment.
What are you doing, Bruce?
Okay, go for it.
No, be Bruce.
Be Bruce.
Oh, my God.
And then he went to the next car.
I was trying to build it out into a thing where you're like Daniel Tiger and Mr. Rogers.
Yeah.
Bruce, what time is it?
Let's reenact the scenario.
So, Randy, you're driving your car.
Bruce Willis comes up.
I was in the passenger seat.
We pulled up to in front of the...
Wait, well, first of all, eat the mic.
I'm so bad about this.
And second of all, vocalize what you're doing like...
I wasn't driving.
Like, I don't mean to feed you lines, but like, you'd be like, hey, it's me, Mama LaRusso.
I'm on the Hollywood Boulevard.
I'm not even sure if I had done that already.
I don't think I did.
Well, it was then...
This is free LaRusso.
Fix it, rewrite it.
No, we just pulled up, my friend and I, to the improvist, Karen Brooks.
You know what I'm saying?
Karen Brooks?
Yeah.
You were going to the improv to see...
No, I don't know why we were pulling up in front of the improv.
He came out from the improv.
Because that's where the strip was hottest.
He came by and he put his head down in the car and he goes, where are you girls going?
And I said...
And first I said, shit, that's Bruce Willis.
Wait, but you knew him from what?
Moonlighting?
What?
Probably.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
We're going back here.
We're going really far back.
And I just said, you know, we're not going anywhere.
I don't know what I said.
Where were you going?
Were you going to the improv?
He put his hand in the car and slapped me across the face.
What the fuck?
Was it playful, though?
You were pulling into...
Wait, it seems like you liked it.
Why are they questioning me?
You were...
Was it playful?
Why didn't you report it?
Tell me what happened.
It wasn't before the days of Me Too.
Okay, but was it playful or was it really hard?
I think he was pissed off because I rejected him.
He was pissed off.
I would have slapped you.
Learn to take a compliment.
I think I might have mentioned this on the show before.
He once knocked me over at a bar because I was with a girl that looked a little too
much like Demi Moore.
Yeah, there you go.
And he jumped over a thing and just fucking...
He hockey checked me up against the boards and I almost went to the ground.
He absolutely nailed me.
It wasn't because he was trying to.
He saw a girl he wanted to talk to and I was in the way.
He was right.
Exactly.
And he completely just fucking shoulder-checked me.
What would be his Sam Essence for Bruce Willis?
Douchebag.
Come on.
Knock it off.
The poor guy.
His only crime is being so visible.
Wait, why?
I think it's such a cool thing that I like to hear the way that he...
No, but I'm saying what would he be?
He says like, Douchebag.
Oh, he's an asshole.
Yippee-ki-yay, mommy issues.
I really like Hudson Hawk.
I like Hudson Hawk.
I like that movie.
You're the one.
What would his Essences be?
Hey, uh...
Call of fucking California.
All things considered, rather being Philadelphia.
His Essences would be along the lines of some of the things that he'd be like, hey, oh,
what are you doing over here?
It's me, Bruce Willis.
That's not an Essence.
Oh, look, what's going on over here?
I'm trying to...
I'm coming up with it.
Bruce Willis' Essence.
Oh, hey.
Sam Christensen is turning in his grave right now.
Sam's like, you can do it, Dan.
You can do it.
I'm going to come up with it.
This is Bruce Willis' top Essence.
Hey, you put a plant in a pot?
You get a potted plant?
That's pretty good.
Pretty good.
Tell me I'm fucking wrong.
You put a pot in a plant.
You get a potted plant.
What Essence is that, though?
That's Bruce Willis' Essence.
What do you mean, what Essence is that?
What are you describing about him?
Hey, you put a pot in a plant?
A plant in a pot.
Sorry, I fucked it up.
You put a plant...
It's about...
It's for him.
It's not for you.
It's how he centers himself before an audition,
which he doesn't have to do anymore
because he fucking figured it out.
Sorry, he slapped you.
That's not cool.
People shouldn't slap people.
I'm confused.
In the 80s, everyone was slapping everybody.
A lot of people were drugged.
I mean, there were nine people in the world
and he was one of them.
So it's like, what do I do?
He was drugged, man.
One of the nine people slapped me.
He was angry.
This is the problem I have with this story.
So you're pulling into the improv.
Oh, my God.
Just listen to me.
You're pulling into the improv.
I'm going to slap you.
And then Bruce Willis says,
hey, where are you going?
You're pulling into the improv.
Albert!
Was he wearing a vest?
Did he have flashlights?
Hey, where are you going?
Maybe...
I mean, there's a sign...
Because if the answer is the improv,
you get validated.
You're pulling into the improv.
I think what it meant is that
hey, where are you going?
Hey, where are you going?
We're not going anywhere.
You just see that part of the story trick me up too.
I know what you are,
but I'm saying he was probably saying like,
hey, where are you going?
Okay, I know what his technique was,
because it was the improv.
Okay, you be Cody's mom.
I'll be Bruce Willis.
Okay.
Okay, so...
Hey, where are you going?
Oh, it's there.
What?
For the listeners,
for our listeners,
that was Robert rolling down a window.
Cast your minds back
into the foggy mist of time.
A Jimmy Carter-era window got rolled down.
Do you see how long the crank was?
Jump of the night.
The radius.
Because apparently she was...
She was in an Oldsmobile Cutlass Supreme.
She was also the size of a mouse.
All right, sorry.
Hey, where are you going?
We just got here.
We're going nowhere.
Where are you going?
The improv.
Hey, you like improv?
Yeah, we're going here.
So you can't deny.
You can't ask questions.
Nope.
Does this suck my dick?
Yes, and...
What?
Oh, she's rolling up the window.
I was just saying, like, he...
You can't go fuck yourself.
My point was, what the...
In the fuck...
All right, tonight's show's...
That he picked that spot because it was, like, a thing.
Like, he's like, where are you going?
Your answer's supposed to be, I'm going to the improv.
And he's like...
We weren't going into the improv.
If you want to improvise...
Where are you going?
Bruce Willis.
Where were you going?
That's what I asked before.
I don't know.
I don't remember.
She was going to the improv.
No, we weren't.
She's going to the laugh factory.
Where were we going?
I don't remember.
I'm just...
You know what?
We may not have been in the front of the improv.
Oh, my God.
Now that I think about it...
We never.
I'm just saying it was somewhere where we were pulled up for a show.
I don't know.
I don't remember.
The story's falling apart, right?
This was not even Bruce Willis' life.
He probably pulled up to Bruce Willis' house.
We probably pulled up to Bruce Willis' house.
I pulled up to Bruce Willis' house.
I'm going to call...
You were trespassing.
You were stealing his diehard gargoyles.
Hey, what are you doing?
Where are you?
I had those built because I'm proud of being a diehard.
You're like, I don't fucking know.
He tried to grab them and he slapped you.
What the fuck are you doing?
I got two things I like.
My gargoyles in my diehard mailbox.
Now the truth comes out.
All right.
Mama LaRusso, the character.
Let's dig in.
Dig in.
Is she Italian or Jewish?
Yeah.
You got to eat the mic.
Yeah, yeah.
The name LaRusso...
The LaRusso family is very Italian.
They were Italian.
They were New Jersey Italians.
And you're like, where were they from?
Recita?
What does she say?
No, no, no, Jersey.
Jersey.
Yeah.
And they were in Recita, California.
Well, they were visiting.
They were coming, not visiting.
They were moving to Los Angeles.
And they pulled up in Recita to a place that they were going to live.
Tell me about Elizabeth Shoe.
Cute, young.
She was like 18, first job.
How old was Ralph Machio?
Ralph was about 22.
What?
No shit.
No way.
That was so fucking weird.
He looked like a 14-year-old.
Hollywood Light!
That is so weird.
I mean, first of all, to props to Machio, we're not age-shaming him.
I would have assumed absolutely the opposite.
No shame to Elizabeth.
Because when you watch that movie through nowadays' eyes, you're like, oh, Jesus Christ.
There were so few people in the world that we always had to cast adults as teenagers.
And Elizabeth Shoe is gorgeous, but she very much feels like she's his mom.
She was very mature.
She feels like a grown-ass woman.
He looked like his hormones had kicked in.
Very convincingly, like 14.
He was 22?
He was 16.
I mean, 22 playing 16.
Wow.
And when I got hired, I had to audition with him.
And I walked out and I said, God, I'm only 36.
And he's 22.
Because he looked so young.
Oh, did you feel like, yeah.
So you get the call or your agent goes, got a part.
The name of the part is Mama LaRusso.
Was there ever, as a female actor, you have to go through.
I've dated an actor or two here and there.
Oh, really?
I've experienced some existential crises where the actor goes, what the fuck?
And they're like, why am I getting, why is my agent telling me to audition for this soccer mom and this Ford commercial?
Oh, oh, oh.
Was there a line where you?
No, I was just happy to work.
You know, I came to LA and that was one of my first jobs.
I wasn't even thinking about it.
I was just that he looked so young.
And when I found out he was 22 and I was only 36.
So I think, I mean, in the script, I don't think it was Mama LaRusso.
No.
I just want to, I feel like.
What was the character's first name?
I don't know.
But I read it.
I thought it was like such a little gem even when I first read it.
You recognized that it was satisfying.
Oh, I didn't think it was going to become like it did.
But I said, wow, that's a beautiful story, you know, and great part for an Asian man.
Pat Merida was only 17 in that.
It's just super.
I did this podcast on Whiting Wags with Jessica Gow.
Like we, like it's weird, like millennials don't.
Pat Merida wanted, did he win an Oscar for that?
No, but he was nominated.
He's nominated.
Like try to imagine a world where Pat Merida, who speaks like you and I, he was.
Not anymore.
He was, well, not anymore.
That's a ghoulish.
You said I was like the devil.
So he has a, like, and then he's playing this guy.
He's cast for the shape of his face for his lineage or whatever.
And he's like our confusing relationship with whitewashing and all this stuff.
And like Pat Merida was nominated for an Oscar because he played a Japanese national immigrant.
And he talked like this, Daniel's son.
And in the midst of talking like this, which is one genealogy branch from being Mickey Rourke
in Breakfast at Tiffany's, but he's Japanese.
He's Asian.
Mickey Rourke.
What did I say?
That would have been good.
Fat check.
I do that every day.
The modern lens was like, well, what are you doing there?
You're not supposed to do that.
Do you think it was racist?
Well, I'm 46, so I was socialized not to, but like through a modern lens, you're supposed
to go, oh, this is everything that's wrong with everything because it's like, well, it's
very, very confusing when it comes to casting, like this idea of, oh, why did you cast this
white person as this blah, blah, blah, when you could have cast this person, like it's,
your brain kind of understands it to a certain point, but it gets a little confusing between
generations because there was, I remember at that time, there was absolutely, there was
no question of whether or not Pat Merida was very deserving of accolades for being on screen
going, oh, Daniel, son, you should have do karate more better, oh, you do it this way,
instead of that way.
And then, and I'm not knocking his, because the whole point is he acted the shit out of
it.
He was doing a thick, weird accent.
He was a stereotype.
And it was, it put you in the shoes of this kid who's like, the weird handyman is like,
hey, what's a, what are you, well, I'm Brooklyn, I don't know what nothing about nothing, and
I went back to Jersey, all I do is do this, and he's like, oh, Daniel, son, yeah, you
fix a sink, but you know, fix a soul.
And it's like, the whole thing had this like chemistry to it, it was like, very charismatic
and I don't know, why am I bringing this up?
I don't know.
No fucking idea.
Pat Merida's dead now.
Pat Merida was nominated for an Oscar for that, like, I don't know.
I guess one of the things it brings up is that they redid the Karate Kid, they did the
series and you were on that series.
It's on now, yeah.
I haven't seen that, but what's the deal with the Karate Kid series?
Like, isn't Ralph Machio's in it, but he's not like the good guy, right?
Well, they're 56 years old now.
He's kind of like, isn't the series about kind of how he's sort of, is he straight a
little bit in terms of values, he's not like a heroic innocent.
He's a karate kid, so now he's like drunk on power doing coke and I hear he, he beats
a few women in it and he's like, I'm waxing you on, I'm waxing you on.
That's a great series.
But the Cobra Kai are like sympathetic or whatever.
No, no, no, it's, they're grown now, the two men, you know, Lawrence, what's the main
to the blonde guy?
What's his name?
Billy Zafka.
Well, what's a character?
Johnny, right?
Do you watch it?
Who is that?
Is that my husband?
That's your, that's your husband.
Oh, that's my husband.
I had the same reaction.
I'm like, whoa, big Karate Kidman.
It's your husband.
I can't even.
He read the call sheet.
Billy Zafka.
Thank you.
Not their rivals again.
I had to run all his lines.
His favorite color is green.
For God's sakes.
Get your shit together.
You put me in the car.
That's called Cobra Kai.
Is everybody watching it?
Uh-oh.
It's doing really well.
The good news is that response means eight million people are watching it.
There's so much TV.
It's just aerosol misted.
It doesn't matter.
Anybody watching Green River?
No.
See?
Yeah.
A million people watching it.
And that's a show I made up.
No, they're rivals again, and they're grown up now.
And Billy Zaptis character has a dojo.
And oh, it's so hard to explain.
You don't have to.
But they're rivals now again.
Not going to watch it.
Yeah.
We've reached the part of the show where I'm so drunk.
They actually did a great job bringing it into today's world.
Just wrap you across the face?
Yes.
No, it's good.
I think it's good.
Yeah.
All right, give us some John Hamm stories.
You were on Mad Men.
What does this dick look like?
I heard it's very large.
John, I hope he's not listening to this.
He probably is.
You know what?
Big deal.
I don't know about it.
Oh, John, sorry.
We're spreading the rumor about your big giant dick again.
But here's a thousand dick-shaped violins playing for his giant dick.
No, because everyone knows about it, because there are pictures and stuff.
He's a tell-the-wigs story.
Oh, you tell it.
Tell it.
He's a good at this.
So Randy's having a four-hour makeup done to age her.
And the makeup lady says to her, maybe I'm making up half the spirits, but it's fine.
So the makeup says, I heard Matthew Wainer say...
No, it's wrong already.
No, so my character has this big wig and aging.
They age me up.
And there was a scene where I was wearing the wig and I had to...
Oh, I tilted it.
Oh, this is going to be terrible.
I'm telling it already.
I felt it better.
Yeah, it's canceled.
It's canceled.
So the wig person says, I heard Matthew Wainer said, it might be funny if you adjusted your
wig in the scene.
So she said, oh, well, I think I'll do that then.
So she gets to the first take and she adjusts the wig.
And then they do the second take and she adjusts the wig.
And she said to John, John, too much?
She said, first take, yeah, second take, no.
That was what happened.
See?
I don't really...
I have any John Hamm stories.
It was great to work on that show.
I had a great time.
He's a good guy.
He's a huge dick.
And he's beautiful.
And he is a big dick.
No, I don't.
In my experience, it's big, but it's weird.
Yeah.
Oh, really?
It's a big, weird dick.
It's shaped like an ampersand.
Like a ham?
Like a ham thing?
Like Liam Neeson.
Like a ham bone?
He has an ampersand dick.
It's just shaped like a...
We're going down the hill here.
His dick is like a treble cleft.
Yeah.
It's very curvilinear.
And honestly, John Hamm, if you're listening or if any of your representatives are, come
on the show.
Clear your name.
That's right.
I'm going to challenge John Hamm to come on the show.
Show us your dick.
Take out a little bit to win.
Let's get Bruce Willis and John Hamm, and we'll have Bruce slap John Hamm's dick.
I still...
Such an exciting career.
I feel like Sam.
Sam is watching.
He's still like, you guys didn't do it yet.
You didn't do that thing that I need you to do.
I didn't go to his class.
I should have gone.
He needs us to be true to ourselves.
Sam wants me.
Sam was always like...
I feel like when I went to Sam's class, the thing that Sam was always suggesting to me
that I wish that he wasn't gone so that I could...
I feel like I was incomplete.
Sam was always saying to me, okay, Dan, but why don't you do that?
But what if you weren't allowed to scream?
Because I thought not being a very good actor, when I learned how to yell, I was like, oh,
this is great acting.
You're telling me, speak the speech, I pray to you, tripping like I'm telling you.
Like, oh, I'm yelling.
And then Sam's thing was always like, okay, Dan, but what if you were afraid to do that?
What if you had to sit on your rage?
How would that manifest itself?
And I was never able to do that.
All of my stuff was like how wounded I was and how dishonestly that would manifest itself.
And I never got to, I don't know, yeah, I don't know, my memories of Sam, they're incomplete
because they make me go, Sam, give me more attention, tell me I did something, tell me...
I weirdly pictured Sam when I was 70 that Sam would still be...
I never thought about him as having an age or immortality.
I thought he'd be like hanging out and he'd be like, you did it, good job, you're 70.
You did a great job at that eulogy, you did it.
I was watching you on that...
There's so many things that he said, just with one line, with one little statement that completely
transformed the way I thought about things.
And he told me one thing that I'll never forget, he said, Jeff, he goes, you make it all too
hard.
He goes, you overthink it, you're making it harder than it is.
He goes, just do it, just say the words.
He goes, you have tricks that you use.
He goes, don't use them, just say the words.
He goes, do it again and just say it.
And then all the emotion comes out when you're not lying and you're not pretending.
He just had a way of terrifying you into honesty, but without being terrifying, he never...
Also, he said, when I first took his class, I sat down and he told a story.
There was a girl that was in the class and it was the first day and he brought her down
in the same way that he brought, when you first start the class, he'd just bring random person
out of 15 of us, sit in the chair and he would just say, there was this woman that sat in
the chair, you're probably a 20-year-old girl, said, raise your hand the rest of you
if you think that she is the first one in the pool and the last one out and nobody raised
their hands.
And he goes, raise your hand if you think that her bedroom is everything in its place
and right where it should be and everybody raised their hand and she started crying.
And Sam freaked because he's not there to make people cry, he's not one of those acting
teachers that wants to break you down to build you back up, he's never like that.
And he's like, oh, shit, why are you crying?
And she goes, I'm an athlete, Olympic swimmer, I have three silver medals and nobody thinks
I'm a swimmer.
But if you look at it, Sam was like, if you look at her, short hair, the shoulders, the
build, the tan, she looks like a swimmer, but no, because why don't people perceive me
as a swimmer?
I've gone out on a thousand...
You're swimming, do I have to do?
Yeah.
And she said to him, and she's crying, and she goes, I've gone on a thousand commercial
auditions as an athlete, as a swimmer, and last year I went out and actually brought
one of my silver medals, which you're not supposed to do, you're not supposed to advertise
that.
And I still couldn't get a call back on it.
And he said, do you have an agent?
And she says, yes.
And she goes, Sam said, go to your agent tomorrow and say, no more athlete stuff, it's behind
the desk, everything in its place, everything just so.
And he just met her.
Behind the desk, everything in its place, everything just so.
She told her agents that, she booked three commercials that week.
Because he completely goes like, you're a swimmer, but we see you as something else.
Goldie Hahn is an intellectual, but we want her to play an airhead.
Right.
Because that's what she's bringing to the mythological table.
There was another story that fits in with that one, which I think it intersects with
the Pat Merida thing, which is in an area that's sort of confusing to me, like what's
our job as actors and what's our job as producers and casting, that there was a woman in his
class that she was like, look, I feel like I want to be an actor.
And I said, she takes the class, and she's doing the exercises, and she's getting flustered
and more flustered, and something is eating away at her.
It's clear, and it builds and builds and builds, and then there's that class where she just
sort of breaks down, and she starts, she just breaks down.
And this is a story I heard third hand, and Sam goes, what's wrong?
What's happening?
And she goes, look, who are we fucking kidding?
And then she described herself, and I can't remember the description.
The part of the story is, she's like, I'm a 280 pound, half Filipino, 45 year old woman,
and I decided I want to be an actor, what the fuck am I doing?
She went on this rant that included like just this, her perceived evisceration of herself,
which included just a functional cataloging of what she was.
And Sam's response was, I want you to go home tonight, and I want you to take however many
headshots you have left, put them each in an envelope, and write, don't open this unless
you want a 45 year old half Filipino, blah, blah, blah, whatever she said, don't open
it.
Don't open it unless you want that.
On each of the envelopes, I want you to send it to all these people that you sent it to.
And it was the, she was the receptionist on Northern Exposure, which millennials don't
know.
There was a shot, it was like, that was that actor that was like, you're looking, it was
just sort of like, I don't know how to file that, it's this story of like, that's what
Sam's magic was, it's like, turn this thing that you think is an obstacle into this evil
carnival ramp and leap into the sky and have everyone look at you and notice these things.
It's almost counterintuitive to what we now profess politically and philosophically.
The things that we're trying to overcome is like, well, don't, you shouldn't be noticing
that I look like this, and your first instinct about who I am is actually your problem.
You should be actually finding your shame about it.
And I don't know, I guess I always thought I would watch Sam grow and progress into that
era and see how he reacted to it.
I know that Sam was very internet averse.
He was always so, we would walk into class with our cell phones when they were first
developing at a palm tree and he's like, Dan, are you a, is that your phone?
Like, yeah, he's like, did you know that that consumes three times as much energy as a refrigerator
per week?
What am I, okay, okay, sorry.
Class isn't started yet.
He was like very, part of Sam to me always felt like he was, he was very sad to watch
the world progress.
He felt like it was becoming less and less human and stuff and I hate to beat a dead
horse, but I guess I'm going to Bob and saying, tell me, tell me he went away not going, oh,
Jesus Christ, you people are fucked up.
The thing about when you got your essences and then you have to go in front of the class
and save them all and what's amazing is that everybody in the, you think they're either
going to boo or cheer, but what they do is they just laugh and they go, oh, it's so cool
that that person knows, like there was a girl in my first class and she was just like really
like good looking like Latina and she hated one of her essences and it was Hot Tamale
and she's like, I fucking hate this one.
I fucking hate it.
I hate it.
We're all dying laughing and he goes, why do you hate it?
She goes, because I've been called Hot Tamale my entire life and you always will be, but
you have to, like there's two stages.
It's acknowledging it and then embracing it and you have to throw your arms and go fuck
it.
I'm a Hot Tamale or Goldie Hahn has to embrace the fact that she's like America's airhead
even though she's like a giant intellect and a church just sent me an awesome quote from
Nick Cave, embrace your flaws, they're the only thing of, they're the only thing of interest
that you have, like your flaws are what makes you and that's absolutely, like Sam would
have absolutely dug that because that's what he, he just had a way of like looking at
you and going, Jeff, someone said, hey, I sent someone to his class and I sent a million
people to his class and if you like spread it all out, my first girlfriend that sent
me there, there must have been a thousand people that went there including like, you
know, you guys, a fuck, I've lost my train of thought, he had a way of just like, oh,
so I said, I sent somebody to the class and my friend called me up and he goes, hey, Sam
says hi and he also said, tell Jeff he's an asshole and he'll get it.
And I laughed because like, he's like, tell Jeff, you're an asshole and that's Sam going
like remind him that he should call me more.
Like he only spoke to you in truth and absolutely essentially and it's the best.
I feel like for me, Sam was the anchor of everything.
When everything was going through your mind that you needed help with, that you needed
advice on, that you needed a perspective on that you had not thought of, he was the anchor.
And what was interesting is I was with him when the night Obama was elected and I was
with him the night Trump was elected and on both nights he cried.
For the same reason, he's like, God, I'm so racist.
No, I can't remember, but I guess we haven't really addressed Sam's racism.
Sam seems like mentor, he's a screams mentor, even though he's a close friend of yours so
you're not going to like label him as a mentor because he's like your buddy, but at the same
time what you're saying is an anchor, he was there.
Did that position, did that cause him pain?
Did he, was he weary of that?
Did he wish that there was like, yeah, I get it.
Everyone wants to hear whether or not they need to feel good about themselves.
Jesus fucking Christ, is anyone going to ask me a goddamn question about what the fuck
I want?
Is that me projecting?
No, he lived in extreme back pain and stuff like that.
Like I wonder if part of being so empathetic that you take on another, use your microphone.
Sorry.
Do you think he embodied?
I don't know.
That's something that Bob was very devoted teacher.
I feel like if you're so good at spotting other people's pain that you have to wear
that pain.
No.
Like you're an antenna for that kind of stuff.
I feel like it eased his pain.
Other people's pain would ease his pain because he would solve it for them.
He was happy doing that.
Oh, he loved it.
He wasn't like invoicing it.
No.
Project that under him.
No, because he's a teacher too.
It's interesting because years ago there was a televangelist named Teri Cole Whitaker
who I became friends with.
And she was very successful and she sold DVDs and books and a book called What You Think
of Me is None of My Business and all this stuff and everything.
And finally she quit.
And I said, I'm quitting.
And I said, why are you quitting?
She said, because I feel like I'm everybody's crutch and I don't want to be everybody's
crutch.
Okay.
I want to live my life.
Sam did not feel like that.
He didn't feel like that.
And he wasn't people's crutch.
He taught people and he had his own private life away from that.
But his relationship with me was not like, you know, I'm your crutch.
It was like...
Your friends, dear.
Your friends, but it was also give and take because I would advise him too.
Like he...
Let me throw something around you and see what you think of that.
You know, because we had interesting perspectives because we knew each other for so long, for
so many years that we could be objective about each other.
But I think...
Well, it's like a favorite thing of his on the off chance that we were to like, oh, we
got a podcast.
Like what was a cause of Sam's like as far as charity going one way or another.
We have a new thing in the podcast where we're like divert things.
Did Sam have a favorite actual like charity as far as like writing checks or it's like,
you know what I really love is puppies for poor people or whatever.
Democrats.
Well, just straight up.
If you see the Michael Moore documentary though, the recent one, I just told you about
it.
Dammit.
It fucking shook us right into the Bernie camp.
Like we're like, God damn Obama's a piece of shit.
Like I did not, I did not expect the Michael Moore documentary to make me go, fuck Democrats.
It was a really disappointing story and it was a weird like a papamatic bubble of shit
balls.
Like this whole thing is fucked.
I never, I, I, I guess I'm glad for it.
But anyways, it's, but Sam was like, it's, it's like, like, like he was, he was a died
in the world.
Democrat.
He's like, look, we got to, we got to make this tent and like, like goes straight forward.
He was a Hillary guy.
He's, he would have, he would have been a Pelosi guy slash Elizabeth Warren guy, maybe
or whatever.
Who knows.
But, but like, Sam, Sam, Sam couldn't have been more punk rock, but he was like practical.
He's like, let's fucking win this.
Stop dicking around.
Maybe is what he was.
He's also a huge donor to California hair bears.
All right, well, look, Sam, I, I feel like I'm suckling pig.
Like I feel like I got so much of you.
I just, all I did was come to your, your trough and just like lick and suck and selfishly
preen.
Like, I guess this guy tells me this and tells me that and I just, I never anticipated
that he would be somebody that I, one of my favorite times of my life was when, but you
know, before you and I were working and we would go to the rest again and we had an hour
before class and you would go home to your crap apartment in Los Feliz and Dan would
write me a monologue and then write himself a monologue and I would learn it in the car
on the way there and we would go in there and do it.
And Sam kept a lot of the monologues that Dan wrote like right before class and disseminated
them to like a lot of students and some of the best shit you've ever written was stuff
that you wrote last second for, to go up there and do, you know, like a minute long monologue.
Because it was a great writing exercise.
You go through these classes and you go, oh, this guy's essence is, I'm here to pick your
pocket and suck your dick or something and you'd be like, well, that's specific.
And then you're like, okay, what if that guy had to talk for a minute and like, hey, I'm
here to pick your pocket and suck your dick.
It was like these essence like writing for you, like writing monologues for you.
You wrote one for me, it was like a CIA guy that was like jumps from train to train on
top of it and kills people and just brags about how much he loves being in the CIA and
killing people.
And you wrote that in like five minutes and it was fucking amazing.
Years before Chuck.
I mean, I was like, amazing.
I, I, there's a million anecdotes of Sam bringing out people's humanity and bringing
out their absolute honesty and quality.
Somebody getting up in class and looking at their cards and people wrote down and the
guy yelling, I'm not loud.
Or a woman going, hard to handle, fuck this class and walking outside.
Like people complaining about their own essence and doing an impression of themselves.
Like there's, there's no way to replace him.
He like, I hope we're not boring you to death by a person that you don't know.
Well, what are they going to say to that?
Yeah, you are.
They're not, they're good people.
I was, I was, I was in a long car, car ride with Drew Carey, like, like when I first
met like very early when I knew him and I was telling him about Sam's class and he was
driving and he goes, I want to know who I am.
And he was like on the Drew Carey show, he was like the number one show and he goes,
I don't really know who I am.
And he took the class and he came to me and he goes, he goes, he sent everybody he knew
to the, to Sam's class.
He goes, we, we think we know who we are.
There's compliments we wish people would pay us, but they don't.
And there's insults that we wish people wouldn't pay us, but they do.
And you have to own all that shit.
And my favorite essence of Drew's is doing the best I can with what I've got.
And he goes, and he goes, I'll give you a free car if you want, if you want.
Yeah.
And that's why he's brilliant at, on Price is Right, is because like when Drew gives
you a car, it's like, this is fucking amazing.
All right, well, we'll get another person who'll come up with this.
Yeah.
Shit fire in the wind.
Fuck me.
Oh.
Are you having a stroke?
What's going on?
Sam is gone now.
And so here's, look, here's my thing.
Young people, because there's not going to be another Sam.
And as we hear from these Hot Tamale stories, actually, Sam, yeah, if there was another
Sam, it wouldn't take the same form because tomorrow's Sam, if they were identical the
last year's Sam would be, what the fuck, that's super racist or whatever.
Like I would say to young people, like what I learned from this dude that I had thankfully
intersected with is, is there a way, and like Instagram and Twitter are not going to, they're
not going to be offering this to you.
No one is going to tell you that this is important to explore yourself, warts and all, shame and
all to pour hot, scalding water into yourself and see how low it goes and what pockets it
fills, like ask yourself these questions, what are you ashamed of?
What do you think is this thing that you refuse to hear about yourself?
If somebody says this to you, that's a deal breaker.
You're going to walk away.
You're going to, if someone said this to you, you're going to explode because, oh my God,
that's your, holy shit, everyone says that to me.
Nobody's ever said that to me because I've done such a good job of protecting it.
You've got this time on earth to like open your own hood and like go into that shit and
like figure it out.
The clues that Sam turned us on to were, I don't know if kids these days ever passed
notes.
Like now that you guys grew up with cell phones, so why would you ever pass a note?
I had a box full of letters from girls I had crushes on and vice versa that Sam was able
to tell me, go on and look at all this and of course I saved all those fucking notes
from Gina and I was able to go, holy shit.
She's calling me capricious and aloof and interesting and organic and then it's like
slob, weird, lazy fucking nerd like like like and noticing like what happens when people
fall in and out of love with you.
But you have your texts.
You can go back through them.
Like what do what do people say about you?
It's easier than you can like search for keywords and stuff.
What do people say about you when they're excited about you?
What do people say about you when they, when they're your biggest fan?
What do people say about you when they want to really hurt you?
What's the worst thing that someone could say about you?
Shit on a scarf and then return it.
Sam, Sam, Sam, I think if you were here would say start there, start coming up with adjectives
for this stuff, then get out of thesaurus and look up the synonyms for those adjectives.
Make big lists of the things that people have said about you and then look up the synonyms
for those things and find words that spike your rage, your shame, your silence, your
emotions and start asking yourself what if I had permission to be these things?
What if these things were the only point of me being around?
That might be a really good direction to go as a writer.
I mean so many of our listeners like I think a disproportionate amount of our listeners
are aspiring writers because I've snowed them into thinking I'm a writer.
Why am I self deprecating?
I'm an amazing writer.
I'm so drunk.
I'm sorry.
One of my essences ends the show badly.
Sam is gone, there's no more of the class.
We know a lot of people that have passed away but how many people do we eulogize this much
and why are we doing it?
And I think like and I don't want to make myself cry because I'm a crier but he was
a healer and how many people can you say that about?
Well because if it was a Western it would be like well I get seven bullet holes on
the back of my jacket and they all represent seven times that Sam saved my life.
I wouldn't be here.
It's unfair that he's gone and we're here.
That's why I'm like scrambling to like what are we supposed to do?
What 40 are we supposed to pull?
When I got the call my first thought was I cannot imagine Sam not being on this planet.
That was my feeling.
Never thought about it.
And never thought about it.
It was never something we even talked about, about that even being a possibility.
And he came to my workshop, I teach singing workshops, and he came to my workshop one
night.
He said I really want to be a part of that and see what you do.
And the next Friday night when we got together he said it's so interesting to me that without
us ever talking about it that what you're giving these people is very similar to what
I do.
So that if somebody came in and said I want to play Eliza Doolittle in My Fair Lady and
I would say do you really feel a connection with that character?
No, I just like those songs.
That's not it.
You have to find out how the world sees you.
That will tell you how you're castable.
And that will help you maneuver through life so that people are receptive to you.
And you know, he moved me every week of my life and I just, I cannot, I haven't yet been
able to wrap my head around the loss of this man who was so dear.
And on Wednesday I have to sing at his funeral and I mean it's going to be very difficult.
To Friday nights is, you know, it's Sam.
But how lucky we all are and blessed is what I feel at the end of the day to have had this
man touch our lives in the way he did.
And do you guys know about his buried gold?
His Nazi gold.
Oh, his Nazi gold?
Yeah.
Well, why bury it then?
Why not just let it be Nazi gold and...
If I had Nazi gold, I wouldn't bury it.
I'd be like, well, it's Nazi gold, take it at your peril.
You got to bury your Nazi gold.
All right.
Well, I guess...
You're going to leave your Nazi gold just hanging around?
What were you going to say?
Nothing.
I was going to agree with him saying that it's lucky to have met him and maybe nobody
in our live audience, but lots of people that are listening to us have met him or got to
meet him.
But really he's the reason why I am where I am and he brought a lot of people together.
And he was a real artist just by sitting in a chair and asking simple questions and letting
you be you.
It's pretty crazy.
He would listen to you do the shittiest monologue of the world thinking come in and go like,
here's the thing.
Whoa, it's me.
Hey, I'm Johnny Greaseball.
And he would just take it all in and go, why did you pick this piece?
I like Johnny Greaseball.
It's my favorite movie.
What's Johnny Greaseball doing in this monologue?
Well, he's being kind of a shithead, but don't judge him.
Don't judge him.
That was a big thing I learned from Sam as a writer.
Don't judge that fucking character.
When I was doing community, it was like, no, no, no, no, no.
Never judge the character.
How dare you assume that your character's being a piece of shit?
No, the character is trying to accomplish something.
He's Johnny Greaseball.
What's he trying to do?
He's trying to convince.
Guys, have you ever tried to convince somebody of something?
Yeah, I suppose, like, think about, what have you ever tried to convince somebody of?
Think about something, just anything.
Oh, my mom, I had to get her to co-sign a car.
I bought, like, you had to get your mom to co-sign a car loan.
How old were you?
22.
Where were you?
I had to go to her kitchenette.
What was the wallpaper?
What did it look like?
It was yellow.
Go.
He would just, you never knew when he was going to do that.
And you had the monologue memorized, and you had memorized it as an actor, like, you're
like, woo, hey, I'm Johnny Greaseball, and he's like, why are you always on it?
And then you go, go.
And you're thinking about your mom's wallpaper and trying to convince your mom.
And you're like, you would just be like, I'm Johnny Greaseball.
Do you want to buy a bowling ball?
And almost invariably, sometimes twice, sometimes he'd do it three times.
Every once in a while, you'd get the sense of like, yeah, this person needs another.
They need to mold us over.
But most of the time, it was like watching a chiropractor on a caveman.
Just go, crack, like, where you came in one way, and he just would go, broop.
You memorized this model.
Like, there you go.
Do this.
And then you would do it completely differently.
And the room would be silent because you had nailed the Johnny Greaseball monologue.
Actor or not, good actor, bad actor, who gives a shit?
You were sitting in a chair, and he was like, you memorized it.
Now, say it like you're trying to convince somebody, if that's what the intention is.
And he was like, you would walk out of there going, holy shit.
He told a great story about Robert DeVall, who he worked on Network with.
And I did one of Robert DeVall's monologues from that, where he's firing William Holden.
And I did it again a couple of times, and it went okay.
And I said, when Robert DeVall did that, like, how many takes was that?
Was that like take 10?
And he goes, he did it once.
And he's like, that's how good Robert DeVall was.
And when he did the, what was the profit?
What was that one called?
Where he was, fuck, okay.
The apostle, thank you.
He asked him in an interview, how do you prepare for that?
And he goes, I'm so good at this now, I've been doing it for so long, I don't really
have to prepare.
I just learned the lines.
And I think of one thing, and this is a great thing that Sam told me, because I overcomplicate
things.
He said, I walk on the set, and I just look, I just find something.
And when I did that monologue, I looked up and I said, wow, there's a lot of lights up
there.
It sounds like cheating, you're an actor.
And then he goes, just one thing that makes you feel like a human being.
Like one thing that puts you in the present moment.
Not your preparation or anything, it's, oh, geez, look at all these lights.
And then he goes, he goes, I know the shit's there.
And that's what Sam taught me, is like, you have all of the emotions right there.
Like just let them happen.
You can do that.
And don't overthink things.
Anyway, we love you, Sam.
Schrab, you've been awful quiet.
Yeah.
Oh, Jesus, it's 10, 10.
I know.
We've gone over.
Fuck.
I mean, Sam would not want to be remembered for that extra long podcast.
Do you want to put a little punctuation on this, Schrab?
If I can earn your keep.
Earn my keep.
No, I mean, I've been quiet a long because, I mean, Sam does mean like so much to me.
Prove it.
And it's hard to not talk about him without getting choked up.
So that's why I've been quiet.
And no, Sam taught me a lot about just believing in myself and who I was and just being happy
in my own skin.
And that's it.
Well, let's take that moment to silence.
I'm sorry.
I'm breaking up.
We love you, Sam.
Goodbye, Sam.
That's been Harmontown.
Thank you so much, you guys.
Cody and Randy Heller.
Bob Garrett, thank you so much for being with us.
Rob Schrab, everybody.
I'm Jeff Davis, your crying comptroller.
Dan Harmon's been your mayor.
Thank you all so much for coming.
We love you.
And it's Church Road from Nick Cave.
Embrace your floods.
They're the only thing of interest that you have.
They're my fast-to-take chances on.
Did you get any of that?
Well, I'll see you in the next video.
Bye.